# Creating a new application

## Create the application

Please follow these steps to create your application :
This template is using the "@nrwl/angular" schematics, but inside the repository you are free to chose the stack you prefer to work with, "@nrwl/react", nest... (It's one of our repository's goals to have different technical stack and see if there are differences when it grows, compared to a single stack one )
--

From NX Console pluggin, select "generate" then choose the following option: "@nrwl/angular:application" and fill the informations needed (the one required being the application name)

OR

Using your favorite shell, run the command:

```shell
nx generate @nrwl/angular:application my-app
```

(Switching 'my-app' with your wanted application's name).

--

We recommend using NX Console plugging as it will already show you all different options and args at disposal, making it easy to switch from using scss to css for example instead of having to explicitly indicate --style=css, or to specify that you don't want to have an e2e application also generated by putting --e2e-test-runner=none, you'll just have to select it from available options.

It will generate by default two applications, one being your angular application and the second one being the e2e test-runner application attached and update the angular.json projects list. (Unless you specify otherwise).

## Make use of Nx tooling on the application

You can directly verify the result of this generation by running "nx dep-graph" and by watching those applications listed on the dependency graph. All nx targets are will be available for your applications:

- nx lint my-app
- nx test my-app
- nx serve my-app
- ...

### Scope and type your application

One last step required to make sure that your application will be able to make the best use out of NX tooling is to configure its tags: scope and type, for NX to be able to ensure consistency through its projects graph. In your application's folder project.json, at the bottom you'll find a "tags" property, empty by default. Add a scope and a type to it, as follow:

```shell
"tags": ["scope:my-app", "type:app"]
```

Please refer to [Coding Rules](./CODING_RULES.md) 's sections "Organizing code with libraries" and "Enforce restrictions in library dependencies"

### Adding storybook configuration to your application

If you want already want to benefit from nx schematics to generate a storybook configuration for your application, you can make follow one of those steps:

--

From NX Console pluggin, select "generate" then choose the following option: "@nrwl/angular:storybook-configuration" and indicate your application name.

OR

Using your favorite shell, run the command:

```shell
nx generate @nrwl/angular:storybook-configuration my-app
```

(Switching 'my-app' with your wanted application's name).

--

Once the storybook configured for your application, you'll be able to run

```shell
nx storybook my-app
```

And have a storybook preview of your application (with an empty AppComponent and an autogenerated NxWelcome component).
If you want to have an overview of the existings stories in the monorepo, just run "nx storybook", it will use the defaultProject "portal" and show you all referenced stories available.
